Documentation for literal suffixes (#14121)
ethereum/solidity: docs/types/literal-suffixes.rst

+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parameter type                                              | Accepted literals                                              |
+=============================================================+================================================================+
| ``bool``                                                    | - :ref:`Boolean<booleans>` literals                            |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``uint8``, ..., ``uint256``, ``int8``, ..., ``int256``      | - :ref:`Rational literals<rational_literals>` (including zero) |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``address``                                                 | - :ref:`Address literals<address_literals>`                    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``bytes1``, ..., ``bytes32``                                | - Hexadecimal number literals (not for ``bytes20``)            |

Author: Apparently hexadecimal number literals do not have their own section. And the fact that hexadecimal string literals (can I even call them that?) do and it's called "hexadecimal literals" makes things confusing. It's hard to refer to just one of them in such a way that the reader won't mistake it for the other.

> |                                                             | - :ref:`Hexadecimal string literals<hexadecimal_literals>`     |

Author: Apparently hexadecimal number literals do not have their own section. And the fact that hexadecimal string literals (can I even call them that?) do and it's called "hexadecimal literals" makes things confusing. It's hard to refer to just one of them in such a way that the reader won't mistake it for the other.

them directly.
This makes it possible to call such functions with arguments which are not literals.

.. code-block:: solidity

    suffix(42);
    suffix(123, 2);
    suffix("abc");
    suffix(hex"12ff");
    suffix(true);

Note that the fractional decomposition is not performed for this kind of call - two-argument
suffix functions must be explicitly called with two arguments.

Regardless of the call syntax used, and in contrast to applying a denomination, the result of the
call is itself not considered a literal.
As a consequence, it cannot be used as input of another suffix call, and calculations on it are performed
within its type rather than in arbitrary precision (as is the case with calculations on rational number
literals).

.. note::
    Function call syntax is the only way to pass a negative integer value into a suffix function
    that has a parameter of a signed integer type.

.. note::
    As all free functions, suffix definitions can be :ref:`overloaded<overload-function>`.
    Overloaded suffixes, however, cannot be invoked using the suffix call syntax.

.. index:: ! fractional decomposition
.. _fractional_decomposition:

Fractional Decomposition

> ------------------------

Author: Not sure it's the best term for this. Any ideas?

Reviewer: I like it; it's quite specific, and makes perfect sense if you know what it's actually doing. On the other hand, perhaps it being specific is a downside in case we're going to extend the behaviour beyond fractional numbers (although I can't really think of a scenario at the moment). In any case, I've gotten used to `fractional decomposition` already, so don't change it.

Author: Well, it decomposes also integers, though you could consider those a special case of fractional numbers.

Other ideas I had were "decimal decomposition", "rational decomposition", or "mantissa-exponent decomposition". "Fractional decomposition" seemed the most fitting out of those options. I'm just a bit worried that it might be a term that already has clear connotations that are different from what we're doing, and will give people the wrong idea.

Reviewer 2: I think the name is fitting and after a quick search on the internet, it seems that `**partial** fractional decomposition` is a [term](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partial_fraction_decomposition) used in algebra, but related to fractions of polynomials, so I guess there's no confusion.

.. index:: ! literal suffix
.. _literal_suffixes:

Literal Suffixes
================

> While Solidity :ref:`provides implicit conversions<types-conversion-literals>` from its literals to selected types,
> there are types for which no built-in conversions are available (most notably the
> :ref:`user-defined value types<user-defined-value-types>`).
> 
> To fill this gap, it is possible to define custom conversions in the form of *literal suffixes*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While Solidity :ref:`provides implicit conversions<types-conversion-literals>` from its literals to selected types,
there are types for which no built-in conversions are available (most notably the
:ref:`user-defined value types<user-defined-value-types>`).

To fill this gap, it is possible to define custom conversions as *literal suffixes*.
```

.. code-block:: solidity
    :force:

    // SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
    pragma solidity ^0.8.20;

    type Coin is uint;
    using {add as +, eq as ==} for Coin global;

    function add(Coin a, Coin b) pure returns (Coin) {
        return Coin.wrap(Coin.unwrap(a) + Coin.unwrap(b));
    }

    function eq(Coin a, Coin b) pure returns (bool) {
        return Coin.unwrap(a) == Coin.unwrap(b);
    }

    function c(uint mantissa, uint exponent) pure suffix returns (Coin) {
        return Coin.wrap(mantissa * 10**6 / 10**exponent);
    }

    function uc(uint microValue) pure suffix returns (Coin) {
        return Coin.wrap(microValue);
    }

    contract CoinSeller {
        mapping(address => Coin) balances;

        function buy() public payable {
            require(msg.value == 1 ether);
            assert(1.5 c == 1_500_000 uc);
            balances[msg.sender] = balances[msg.sender] + 1.5 c;
        }
    }

.. index:: ! literal suffix;definition, function;free

Defining Suffix Functions
-------------------------

> Literal suffixes can be defined by applying the built-in ``suffix`` modifier to a :ref:`free function<functions>`.
> 
> Only pure functions can be used as suffixes.
> This means that suffixes cannot read or modify contract state.
> As all pure functions, however, they can perform pure external calls.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Literal suffixes can be defined by applying the built-in ``suffix`` modifier to a :ref:`free function<functions>`.

Only pure functions can be used as suffixes.
This means that suffixes cannot read or modify contract states.
As with all pure functions, however, they can perform pure external calls.
```

Reviewer: Contract state would be preferred (for me at least), as all of the contract's storage variables make up its state, rather than referring to each individual storage variable as a state.

Author: `contract states` sounds weird to me. I usually see it referred to "contract state".

I just checked the docs and looks like we never really say specifically "contract state" there. Only "blockchain state". Changed to that.

.. index:: literal;address

Suffix Function Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A suffix function must accept and return exactly one value.
As a special case, suffixes on :ref:`rational literals<rational_literals>` can optionally accept two arguments,
produced by the :ref:`fractional decomposition<fractional_decomposition>` of such a literal.

Suffixes can only have parameters of types for which an implicit conversion from a literal exists.

> For single-parameter suffixes this includes the following types:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A suffix function must accept and return exactly one value.
As a special case, suffixes on :ref:`rational literals<rational_literals>` can optionally accept two arguments,
produced by the :ref:`fractional decomposition<fractional_decomposition>` of such a literal.

Suffixes can only have parameters of types for which an implicit conversion from a literal exists.
For single-parameter suffixes, this includes the following types:
```

+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parameter type                                              | Accepted literals                                              |
+=============================================================+================================================================+
| ``bool``                                                    | - :ref:`Boolean<booleans>` literals                            |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``uint8``, ..., ``uint256``, ``int8``, ..., ``int256``      | - :ref:`Rational literals<rational_literals>` (including zero) |

Reviewer 4: why is it so special here to write including zero? I would have expected that zero is included.

Author: Because zero is a special case. For example `1` is not a valid value for `bytes4`, but `0` is. This is the only rational number literal that can be assigned to any fixed-bytes type.

You might expect to be able to use fixed-bytes suffixes on `0x00`, but not necessarily on `0`.

Author: Also, it's specifically zero as a rational number. An address literal with zero value does not work that way. I don't want to overload the table with details, but at least the fact that zero is special warrants a mention.

|                                                             | - :ref:`Zero<rational_literals>`                               |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``bytes``                                                   | - :ref:`Hexadecimal string literals<hexadecimal_literals>`     |
|                                                             | - :ref:`String literals<string_literals>`                      |
|                                                             | - :ref:`Unicode literals<unicode_literals>`                    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``string``                                                  | - :ref:`String literals<string_literals>`                      |
|                                                             | - :ref:`Unicode literals<unicode_literals>`                    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

> For two-parameter suffix functions, the first parameter (representing the mantissa) can be of any integer type.

Reviewer 4: interesting.. maybe it would be better to change the `kg` suffix example to support also negative numbers? e.g. `-1.23 kg` after reading this, my understanding is that this is supported for the two-parameter suffix function, right? e.g. use `function kg(**int** mantissa, uint exponent) pure suffix returns (**int**)`. Near my comment https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/14121/files#r1168880547 you wrote "There are no negative number literals in Solidity." But I understood that this is at least valid for "fraction decomposition suffixes". Maybe I misunderstood.

Author: No, declaring `mantissa` as `int` will not let you get negative numbers in it unless you call it yourself using the function call syntax: `kg(-123, 2)`. The fact that allowing signed types here is misleading was actually one of the design questions we had. In the end we decided to allow it mostly because, if your result type is signed, you may avoid some superfluous explicit conversions this way or extra `require()`s to limit the range.

Author: I'll try to make it clearer.

Reviewer 4: ah ok, after reading the doc I thought that exactly this might be possible. So it could make sense to explicitly say in the documentation, that this will not work.

Reviewer 4: I mean to explicitly say for the two-parameter suffix function, that the `int` at the `mantissa` does not really mean it can deal with negative numbers.

Author: > So it could make sense to explicitly say in the documentation, that this will not work.

There is a note saying that just below this part.

> For two-parameter suffix functions the first parameter (representing the mantissa) can be of any integer type.
> The second parameter (the exponent) must be of an unsigned integer type.
> 
> .. note::
>     40-digit literals prefixed with ``0x`` such as, for example, ``0xdCad3a6d3569DF655070DEd06cb7A1b2Ccd1D3AF``
>     always represent ``address`` literals in the language.
>     To invoke a suffix accepting ``bytes20`` you must use one of the other literal kinds implicitly
>     convertible to ``bytes20``, e.g. a hexadecimal string literal
>     (``hex"dCad3a6d3569DF655070DEd06cb7A1b2Ccd1D3AF"``).
> 
> .. note::
>     Suffix functions accepting ``address payable`` are not allowed since address literals are never payable.
> 
> Suffix functions may not accept or return reference types with ``storage`` or ``calldata`` locations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For two-parameter suffix functions, the first parameter (representing the mantissa) can be of any integer type.
The second parameter (the exponent) must be of an unsigned integer type.

.. note::
    40-digit literals prefixed with ``0x`` such as, for example, ``0xdCad3a6d3569DF655070DEd06cb7A1b2Ccd1D3AF``
    always represent ``address`` literals in the language.
    To invoke a suffix accepting ``bytes20`` you must use one of the other literal kinds implicitly
    convertible to ``bytes20``, e.g. a hexadecimal string literal
    (``hex"dCad3a6d3569DF655070DEd06cb7A1b2Ccd1D3AF"``).

.. note::
    Suffix functions accepting ``address payable`` are not allowed since address literals are never payable.

Suffix functions may not accept or return reference types with ``storage`` or ``calldata`` locations.
```

Author: Just a general request: would it be possible to only highlight the part that actually has changes in it? As is I have to carefully scan though the whole diff I see in the comment to make sure I don't miss any change. And I've seen multiple cases where github does not properly highlight something in the diff so they're easy to miss in cases like this where the only change something small like a comma.

Reviewer: I believe what you're asking is to add suggestion on a per line basis instead of per paragraph/multiline.

Reviewer 3: I've never had that happen to me! But wow yeah, if that's the case, your request makes sense.

Author: That would be best for me, but I also don't want to be that picky about it. The ones that bother me are just the ones where the change seems to span many lines but the only real change is a single comma :) Then I'd prefer to have just that one line with the comma highlighted. Otherwise I'm second-guessing myself if maybe the change is there but I just missed it :)

.. index:: function;call
.. _calling_suffix_functions:

Calling Suffix Functions
------------------------

There are two ways to call a suffix function:

#. Suffix call.

> #. Function call.

Reviewer 5: Shouldn't these be links to the sections? I mean, I know these sections are just right below, but what is the purpose of mention them in bullet points if you cannot jump directly to them?

Maybe we could do something like:
```rst
There are two ways to call a suffix function, by using either a :ref:`suffix call<suffix_call>` or :ref:`function call<suffix_function_call>` syntax.

.. index:: ! literal suffix; suffix call syntax
.. _suffix_call:

1. **Suffix Call Syntax**

...

.. index:: ! literal suffix; function call syntax, overload
.. _suffix_function_call:

2. **Function Call Syntax**

...
```

Author: No, this was meant to be just a summary, spelling out the options before we delve into them. What you propose looks would be more like a table of contents and it seems a bit out of place to me. Especially since you have links to sections in the menu on the left.

Actually you may have a point that it's already a bit too much like a TOC. Maybe it would be different if there was some text describing each option. I reworded it so that now it's just a sentence. Is that better?

I could still make them links, but this looks as if I wanted you to immediately jump forward to those sections, while I think it's better if you read them in order.

Reviewer 5: > Is that better?

Yes! ;)

.. index:: ! literal suffix; suffix call syntax

Suffix Call Syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A suffix call has the same syntax as a literal with a :ref:`denomination<denominations>`:

.. code-block:: solidity

    42 suffix;
    1.23 suffix;

>     "abc" suffix;

Reviewer 4: isn't this a string? I understood it that there should be no whitespace?

Reviewer 4: ah ok, the last part seem to say that the whitespaces are optional for string, unicode & hex-string?

Author: Yes. For them whitespace is optional but it can (and probably should) still be there. It's really just a quirk of our parser, maybe I should not even mention it.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, maybe only communicate that there need to be a space. And that's it.

    hex"12ff"suffix;
    true suffix;

The literal passed as input to the suffix function must be immediately followed by the name of the suffix.

> The two must be separated by whitespace unless it's a string, unicode or hexadecimal string literal,

Reviewer 4: maybe also add the unicode in the list examples above?

Author: Added.

> in which case the whitespace is optional.

Reviewer 4: so its also possible to put the whitespaces? maybe this could be also reflected in the examples? e.g just put string, unicode & hex-str with an without whitespaces? and maybe add at the corresponding lines the comment that its optional.. with this the information is already transported, without the need to read the text ;)

Author: I really didn't want to put that much emphasis on it. It's a minor thing. Good for the user to be aware but it should not take away attention from other details discussed here.

Author: I adjusted the text.

This call syntax supports only a single literal argument.
Variables or expressions (even as simple as wrapping the literal in parentheses) are not allowed.
Suffix functions defined with two parameters are also invoked with one literal - the
:ref:`decomposition<fractional_decomposition>` of the literal into two values is performed implicitly
by the compiler.

.. note::
    There are no negative number literals in Solidity.
    A literal with a minus sign is an expression.

>     ``-123 suffix`` is equivalent to ``-(123 suffix)``, so ``suffix`` does not receive ``-123`` as input.

Reviewer 4: I could imagine that some users will have a hard time while finding this out. not sure whether this note can be placed more prominent, so that a user may see this faster.

Reviewer 4: we support info things in the error reporter right? do we actually use that right now for the normal compilation anywhere? I think it's mainly used in the the smt context, right? not sure whether any discussion was done on that, but I could imagine that this would be a nice info use-case. to just help a user to understand this faster. Not sure whether it makes a lot of sense, however, I leave that comment here.

Reviewer: I think a warning would be even better suited.

Reviewer 4: Sure! I was just wondering whether users got probably annoyed somehow to see that warning "always", where maybe info stuff could be just disabled - but I'm not sure whether we support that already

Author: I'll make it more prominent.

> but I could imagine that this would be a nice info use-case. to just help a user to understand this faster. 

I think it would be too annoying to get an info message each time you try to use a negative literal. Especially that when you use a suffix from a library, it's you, not the library author who will be getting the warning :)

Author: I changed this to a warning. I also swapped the order of sections (calling suffixes before defining) so that this comes up earlier.

Still, I don't think it's the most important thing there. It definitely should **not** be the very first thing you encounter because we have to introduce the user to the concept of suffixes in the first place. Details should come later.

    The argument is instead ``123``, and the negation is applied to the returned value.

.. note::
    String concatenation produces a single literal at compilation time and therefore is not treated
    as an expression.

>     This means that e.g., ``"abc" "def" suffix`` is a valid suffix call.

Reviewer 4: maybe also show this in the "example-code" that `"abc" "def" suffix` is exactly the same as `"abcdef" suffix`. With this this note maybe be got understand faster, even without reading the text.

Author: I'll see if I can incorporate it into the example, but again, this is something I didn't want to put too much emphasis on. It's not even something that happens only with suffixes. It's just a consequence of how string literals work in Solidity. `suffix("abc" "def")` works the same way.

Author: I don't really see a good way to incorporate this without giving it undue attention. Even giving it a note already may be too much. The fact that it's not an expression and is allowed in a suffix call is not obvious and therefore relevant but explaining how it works is out of scope of this section.

I added a link to the paragraph about string literal concatenation. I hope that's enough.

> .. index:: ! literal suffix; function call syntax, overload

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A suffix call has the same syntax as a literal with a :ref:`denomination<denominations>`:

.. code-block:: solidity

    42 suffix;
    1.23 suffix;
    "abc" suffix;
    hex"12ff"suffix;
    true suffix;

The literal passed as input to the suffix function must be immediately followed by the name of the suffix.
The two must be separated by whitespace unless it's a string, Unicode, or hexadecimal string literal,
in which case the whitespace is optional.

This call syntax supports only a single literal argument.
Variables or expressions (even as simple as wrapping the literal in parentheses) are not allowed.
Suffix functions defined with two parameters are also invoked with one literal - the
:ref:`decomposition<fractional_decomposition>` of the literal into two values is performed implicitly
by the compiler.

.. note::
    There are no negative number literals in Solidity.
    A literal with a minus sign is an expression.
    ``-123 suffix`` is equivalent to ``-(123 suffix)``, so ``suffix`` does not receive ``-123`` as input.
    The argument is instead ``123``, and the negation is applied to the returned value.

.. note::
    String concatenation produces a single literal at compilation time and therefore is not treated
    as an expression.
    This means that e.g. ``"abc" "def" suffix`` is a valid suffix call.

.. index:: ! literal suffix; function call syntax, overload
```

Author: "unicode" here stands for "unicode string literal", which is a name of our type and I don't think "Unicode" should be capitalized in that.

Function Call Syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Suffix definitions are in all respects valid free functions, and this includes the ability to call
them directly.
This makes it possible to call such functions with arguments which are not literals.

.. code-block:: solidity

>     suffix(42);

Reviewer 4: so e.g. something like `suffix(42 othersuffix)` is not allowed?

Author: It is. The paragraph below mentions it. It says "it cannot be used as input of another suffix call" and `suffix(...)` is not a suffix call.

Reviewer 4: I would say it would cannot hurt to put this in the list of examples too.

Author: ok, I added a separate example showing what's allowed and what is not.

    suffix(123, 2);
    suffix("abc");
    suffix(hex"12ff");
    suffix(true);

Note that the fractional decomposition is not performed for this kind of call - two-argument
suffix functions must be explicitly called with two arguments.

Regardless of the call syntax used and in contrast to applying a denomination, the result of the
call is itself not considered a literal.

> As a consequence, it cannot be used as input of another suffix call, and calculations on it are performed

Reviewer 4: ah ok.

Reviewer 4: but this is the general limitation, right? not specific for two-argument suffix functions right? maybe this paragraph should be then above the "Note that the fractional.."

Author: I think the current order makes more sense. That sentence refers to the example and should be close to it.

> Suffix definitions are in all respects valid free functions, and this includes the ability to call
> them directly.
> This makes it possible to call such functions with arguments which are not literals.
> 
> .. code-block:: solidity
> 
>     suffix(42);
>     suffix(123, 2);
>     suffix("abc");
>     suffix(hex"12ff");
>     suffix(true);
> 
> Note that the fractional decomposition is not performed for this kind of call - two-argument
> suffix functions must be explicitly called with two arguments.
> 
> Regardless of the call syntax used and in contrast to applying a denomination, the result of the
> call is itself not considered a literal.
> As a consequence, it cannot be used as input of another suffix call, and calculations on it are performed
> within its type rather than in arbitrary precision (as is the case with calculations on rational number
> literals).
> 
> .. note::
>     Function call syntax is the only way to pass a negative integer value into a suffix function
>     that has a parameter of a signed integer type.
> 
> .. note::
>     As all free functions, suffix definitions can be :ref:`overloaded<overload-function>`.
>     Overloaded suffixes, however, cannot be invoked using the suffix call syntax.
> 
> .. index:: ! fractional decomposition
> .. _fractional_decomposition:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Suffix definitions are, in all respects, valid free functions, and this includes the ability to call
them directly.
This makes it possible to call such functions with arguments that are not literals.

.. code-block:: solidity

    suffix(42);
    suffix(123, 2);
    suffix("abc");
    suffix(hex"12ff");
    suffix(true);

Note that the fractional decomposition is not performed for this kind of call - two-argument
suffix functions must be explicitly called with two arguments.

Regardless of the call syntax used and in contrast to applying a denomination, the result of the
call is itself not considered a literal.
As a consequence, it cannot be used as input for another suffix call, and calculations on it are performed
within its type rather than in arbitrary precision (as is the case with calculations on rational number
literals).

.. note::
    Function call syntax is the only way to pass a negative integer value into a suffix function
    that has a parameter of a signed integer type.

.. note::
    As with all free functions, suffix definitions can be :ref:`overloaded<overload-function>`.
    Overloaded suffixes, however, cannot be invoked using the suffix call syntax.

.. index:: ! fractional decomposition
.. _fractional_decomposition:
```

Fractional Decomposition
------------------------

> To allow defining suffixes that work with fractional literals, like ``1.23``, the language allows
> a special form of a suffix definition.
> Such a suffix can be considered a more general form of a suffix taking a single integer argument.
> 
> A single-parameter suffix can be applied only to those rational number literals, which represent
> integers.
> Let us consider the following suffix definition:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To allow defining suffixes that work with fractional literals, like ``1.23``, the language allows
a special form of a suffix definition.
Such a suffix can be considered a more general form of a suffix, taking a single integer argument.

A single-parameter suffix can be applied only to those rational number literals which represent
integers.
Let us consider the following suffix definition:
```

Author: > more general form of a suffix, taking a single integer argument.

No, that's what I meant. The two arg one is a more general form of the single arg suffix. Adding a comma changes the meaning.

.. code-block:: solidity

    function kg(uint grams) pure suffix returns (uint) {
        return 1000 * grams;
    }

> The ``kg`` suffix can receive integer values like ``123 kg``, ``1.23e2 kg``, or ``12300e-2 kg``.
> However, invoking such a suffix with a fractional number (e.g. ``1.23 kg``) triggers an error.
> We can fix that by adding an *exponent* parameter:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``kg`` suffix can receive integer values like ``123 kg``, ``1.23e2 kg``, or ``12300e-2 kg``.
However, invoking such a suffix with a fractional number (e.g., ``1.23 kg``) triggers an error.
We can fix that by adding an *exponent* parameter:
```

Author: TIL Americans add a comma after `e.g.`. Weird.

I guess I'll need a lot of commas :)

Reviewer 3: Yup. 😆

.. code-block:: solidity

>     function kg(uint mantissa, uint exponent) pure suffix returns (uint) {

Reviewer 4: as written above.. maybe better to use here `function kg(int mantissa, uint exponent) pure suffix returns (int)` to support also e.g. `-1.23 kg`. would it work like this? if yes, its a nice opportunity to explain that potential negative mantissa in more detail. especially contrasting this then with https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/14121/files#r1168880547 ("There are no negative number literals in Solidity.").

Author: No, it would not work. See https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/14121#discussion_r1169015325.

        return 1000 * mantissa / 10**exponent;
    }

When defined this way, the suffix can handle all the literals it could previously, while ``1.23 kg``
also becomes a valid expression, equivalent to ``kg(123, 2)``.

More generally, the argument of such a suffix call is decomposed into two integer values (``mantissa``
and ``exponent``), such that:

#. ``mantissa * 10**-exponent`` is equal to the value of the literal.
#. ``exponent`` is the smallest possible non-negative integer value satisfying the equation.

The two rules provide unambiguous decomposition in all cases.
For example:

- ``123000`` is decomposed into ``123000 * 10**-0`` (i.e. ``123000`` for ``mantissa`` and ``0`` for ``exponent``).
  Not ``123 * 10**3`` or ``123000000 * 10**-3``.

  In general, when the suffix is invoked on an integer, ``mantissa`` is always equal to that integer
  and ``exponent`` is ``0``.

> - ``1.23`` is decomposed into ``123 * 10**-2``, not ``1.23 * 10**-0`` or ``123000 * 10**-5``.

Reviewer 4: but e.g. `-1.23` would work here too, right? (if mantissa is int)

Author: No, the suffix would get `1.24` and `-` would only be applied to the result. See https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/14121#discussion_r1169015325

            balances[msg.sender] = balances[msg.sender] + 1.5 c;
        }
    }

.. index:: function;call
.. _calling_suffix_functions:

Calling Suffix Functions
------------------------

There are two ways to call a suffix function: a *suffix call* and a *function call*.

.. index:: ! literal suffix; suffix call syntax

Suffix Call Syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A suffix call has the same syntax as a literal with a :ref:`denomination<denominations>`:

.. code-block:: solidity

    42 suffix;
    1.23 suffix;
    0x1234 suffix;
    'abc' suffix;
    hex"12ff" suffix;
    unicode"😃" suffix;
    true suffix;

The literal passed as input to the suffix function must be immediately followed by the name of the suffix.
The two must be separated by whitespace unless it is a string, unicode or hexadecimal string literal,
in which case the whitespace is optional (i.e. ``'abc'suffix`` is also allowed).

This call syntax supports only a single literal argument.
Variables or expressions (even as simple as wrapping the literal in parentheses) are not allowed.
:ref:`Suffix functions defined with two parameters<suffix_function_parameters>` are also invoked with

> one literal - the :ref:`decomposition<fractional_decomposition>` of the literal into two values is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
one literal which must be a number - the :ref:`decomposition<fractional_decomposition>` of the literal into two values is
```
I think it would be nice to emphasize that functions with two parameters, and thus fractional decomposition, is only applicable for number literals.

Reviewer 5: I guess it would be nice to make such emphases as well. But I'm approving anyway.

Author: I think that's irrelevant to the point I'm making here - that the suffix syntax will always take just one argument, no matter how many you may have in the definition. It's true that currently the decomposition is only done for numbers, but that's not an inherent property of this syntax. It's the consequence of what parameters suffixes can take, which will become clear when you get to the section about parameters (or follow the link).

I mean, initially the section on parameters was before the one on calls, so this particular thing was clearer, but then the issue pointed out in review was that handling of negative numbers was not clear :) I want to avoid too much repetition so in ether order there will be details you'll get only when you read both sections.

.. code-block:: solidity

    function kg(uint mantissa, uint exponent) pure suffix returns (uint) {
        return 1000 * mantissa / 10**exponent;
    }

When defined this way, the suffix can handle all the literals it could previously, while ``1.23 kg``
also becomes a valid expression, equivalent to ``kg(123, 2)``.

More generally, the argument of such a suffix call is decomposed into two integer values (``mantissa``
and ``exponent``), such that:

#. ``mantissa * 10**-exponent`` is equal to the value of the literal.
#. ``exponent`` is the smallest possible non-negative integer value satisfying the equation.

The two rules provide unambiguous decomposition in all cases.
For example:

- ``123000`` is decomposed into ``123000 * 10**-0`` (i.e. ``123000`` for ``mantissa`` and ``0`` for ``exponent``).
  Not ``123 * 10**3`` or ``123000000 * 10**-3``.

  In general, when the suffix is invoked on an integer, ``mantissa`` is always equal to that integer
  and ``exponent`` is ``0``.
- ``1.23`` is decomposed into ``123 * 10**-2``, not ``1.23 * 10**-0`` or ``123000 * 10**-5``.

  In general, when the suffix is invoked on a fractional number, ``exponent`` is the negation of

>   the lowest negative power of ``10`` that, when multiplied by the literal, produces an integer value.

Reviewer 6: Assuming the literal ``1.23``
The lowest power of 10, s.t. it multiplied by the literal is an integer is ``10**2``, since ``1.23 * 10**2`` is integer.
So ``exponent`` is ``-100`` :-)? That's the negation of that power of ten... the negation of merely the exponent of that power of ten would be ``-2``... still not exactly right...

Reviewer 6: Or it actually says the negation of the lowest *negative* power of  ``10``... I don't think there is such a thing :-).

Author: What would you suggest though? I know it may not be a very precise phrasing, but I had a problem with explaining this both precisely and concisely. It's generally a confusing thing.

Reviewer 6: Well, the current version at least really doesn't explain it correctly :-). You either have to refer to multiplying *the mantissa* with 10 to the power of the negated exponent to get *the literal* (so opposite to what you say in the text here) - or the other way round talk about the (positive) exponent of the lowest positive power of 10 (without anything being negated), s.t. multiplying it by the literal yields an integer.
The current text seems to mix the two and thereby gets the signs wrong.

Author: > Or it actually says the negation of the lowest negative power of 10... I don't think there is such a thing :-).

It's not very precise phrasing, but people definitely do say that informally. It's used that way for example in the article on ["Power of 10" on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_of_10).

> Well, the current version at least really doesn't explain it correctly :-)

True, just noticed that I indeed got the sign wrong, but other than that it's just that the wording is not precise because I gave up on trying to do that. For example I casually used "power of 10" to refer to the exponent, which seem to be adding to the confusion.

> or the other way round talk about the (positive) exponent of the lowest positive power of 10 (without anything being negated)

ok, this seems to be a better way to phrase it. I'll use something along these lines.

Author: By the way, on a related note, what do you think about the error message that you get when you try to use a signed type for exponent:
```c++
"The exponent parameter of a literal suffix function must be unsigned. "
"Exponent is always either zero or a negative power of 10 but the parameter represents its absolute value."
```

I could just stop at saying that it must be unsigned, but, since this is counter-intuitive (it's really a negated exponent), I thought it's best if the message at least mentions why, so that there's a smaller chance people will incorrectly assume we use a positive power of 10 just because the compiler does not let them use a signed type. Still, I'm not very satisfied with that wording and I suspect you'd have some reservations about it too (it conflates the exponent of the power of ten with a power of ten the same way my docs did). Still, it's hard to come up with something concise here.
